Welcome back.
Up until now we talked about regular expressions quite loosely and I mean you should understand that
it helps us match different things together.
But the problem is well how can I really apply this to real life scenarios.
Well a good use case is perhaps when you're collecting e-mails maybe you're creating a startup.
The startup wants to collect let's say e-mails of interested customers.
Now we want to make sure that whoever is interested in our startup enters a proper email addresses.
Right.
Because we don't want anybody to fill our databases or our excel sheets with random words.
We want to make sure that something is a correct email.
Otherwise it says hey this is not an incorrect e-mail please try again and regular expression is a great
thing to use for validation.
And just making sure that whatever a user inputs or whatever and other machine inputs into your code
is in the correct form so let me show you an example of how I would do this let's say I want to do an
email validation.
Well the first thing I would do is simply type in Python email validation projects and here you see
here that we have a lot how to check for a valid email addresses and pretty much the first couple of
answers are going to be what you're looking for.
I like this one e-mail address regular expression that works ninety nine point nine nine percent of
the time.
That's good enough for me so in here you see that we have some idea of what we can use.
If I scroll down looks like we have a regular expression for different languages.
All right.
Let's do Python.
I'm simply going to copy this and now in here let's go to our regular expression 1 to 1 and just copy
this in here.
Now I get an error because you see here that the R is already included because I've selected Python
here.
So let's just remove the brackets again if we hover over here.
It's going to tell us about each thing that it's trying to do.
And we also have the explanation.
So this is how I like using regular expression.
I find something online that people have used in the past.
I don't try to reinvent the wheel and then try to understand it.
So just to test this out if I type in an email address here look at that I get a match and get a full
match and it matches the group let's go one by one first I see that I have the brackets.
So this is the capturing group I'm trying to capture one data point.
If let's say I enter another e-mail here
that's not going to capture it.
If I go like this it's not going to capture it because while while we're looking for one capture and
group OK next I see that it's asserting a position at the start of the line.
So at the start of the line we want to make sure that it captures this so it matches a single character
present in a set.
So this e-mail can be anything.
It could be letters.
It could be numbers.
And then finally it could be underscore it could have a dot in there.
It could have.
Plus it could have minus.
And then finally plus is a quantify.
So it matches between one and unlimited times.
So this string can be as long as I want and it's still going to work.
It's going to accept plus minus it's going to accept underscore but it's not going to accept an exclamation
mark because it's not in here.
All right.
So that's good.
What about next.
Well the next part is the outside.
It's literally the outside.
We have to make sure we have it and then after the outside again once again we have the characters that
we can use with a plus at the end to say hey you can have as many of these as you want.
Perfect next.
We have a special one matches the character dot literally.
So because dot and regex if I remove it actually mean something.
It matches any character one we want to make sure that the DOT well is exactly what we're looking for.
There needs to be a dot for let's say dot com or dossier or dot net or dot org if instead I didn't have
this slash.
This could be any character.
This is still a matching string without a dot.
So again special character right here and again it actually gives you explanation so if you scroll down
through here I'll tell you exactly what it does.
All right.
After the dot once again we have anything that we want within these square brackets.
Then as long as we want and then finally this dollar sign says hey it has to end with this.
This is the end of the line
so using just that we're able to figure out exactly how to do an email validation.
So all I need to do now is let's say go to code generator copy this piece of code.
Again we're using a raw string because we want to make sure that Python interpreter just doesn't try
to add any special abilities to it.
We just want to make sure that this is a raw string.
Make sure hand that.
All right.
Perfect.
So now is side of this string.
Let's say I have an e-mail address that a user sends me such as B at B dot com if I just remove all
of these and just do a pattern
and let's just simply do.
Well let's just check if a exists.
If I click Run.
All right.
This matches but if somebody gives me a wrong e-mail address or something that's not formatted properly
let's say just like this and I click Run I get none.
So I could do an if statement saying hey if there's no matching object to all then tell them sorry.
Try again.
Very very cool so I have an exercise for you using what you've just learned and definitely your Google
skills because with regular expressions you will Google you're not going to memorize any of this.
I mean I don't what I want you to do is to create also a password checker.
So the password has to have a few requirements.
So the password has to be at least eight characters long.
And it can contain any sort of letters
numbers and you know what it can contain.
How about these symbols.
That's a so write a regular expression just like this.
Using this regex one to one and in the next video we're going to try and do this as well I'll see in
the next one by.